According to Lexico, a online dictionary powered by Oxford.

Hypertrophy:
The enlargement of an organ or tissue from the increase in size of its cells.

What is hypertrophy?
https://youtu.be/2hzgFxvJ2TA

Our bodies have several muscle tissues and fibres which collectively perform 3 important task.

1) Push
2) Pull
3) Lift

When you perform one of these movements, you're actually damaging your muscle fibers, but when the conditions are right, that damage repairs itself and become stronger. That's when you gain bigger muscle fibres.

Under lifting stress, our body experiences microscopic damage or micro trauma.

For the proper conditions to take place in order for Hypertrophy to happen and your muscle starts to repair itself instead of you just damaging your muscle fibers, you have to eat, rest and recover well. Remember

1) Eat
2) Rest
3) Recover

During Hypertrophy, stimulus of your muscle fibres occurs and because of proper nutrition, that's when you accumlate gains.

Nutrition plays a very important role in the repairing process including sleep.

How much Proteins do you need to get lean?
It's estimated that you need 1.5 gram - 11.8 gram per kg of LBM (lean body mass) to stimulate "muscle protein synthesis".

Muscle protein systensis:
is when your body starts create extra muscle fibres in your body.

In order for muscles to properly grow, you need a fair amount of total calorie because if you start eating too less and only protein, it's not going to work. Most people eat about 500 gram of food a day.

Your overall instake has to be balanced.

Carbohydrates and fats are also important.

Fats:
Regulate your hormonal systems

Carbohydrates:
Helps to perform well on the floor

Repeated bout effect:
When this happens, your body goes through this cycle of repeated lifting and damaging and repairing. During this process, your body stop building muscles because your body is used to it.

  For example:
  If you're lifting 5 sets of 5 lbs 2 times this week while doing 10 reps in each set, then the following week, you do the EXACT same thing again, you won't experience any muscle growth.
  
What can you do to stop your body from getting use to building muscles?
The answer is to provide more muscle stimulus by "progressive overload".

Progressive Overload:
This is when you're building on top of what you already have.

You can do this by building on the Volume

What is Volume
Volume      =     # of sets     *     # of reps     *     load

VOLUME is one of the most important metrics you can track in powerlifting. It’s commonly referred to as "how much work" is done and impacts the amount of fatigue or recovery created.

Do too much volume? You put yourself in a recovery deficit, which might lead to overtraining, burnout, or injury. Do too little volume? You put yourself in a recovery surplus, which might lead to detraining or insufficient stimulus for new adaptations.

  https://mystrengthbook.com/blog/defining-training-volume-for-powerlifting/

What this formula means is that..
The total amount of work has to keep increasing if you want to keep building muscles or keep progressing through the year, through your life.

Recovery happens in your sleep.
You need at the very least 7 hours of sleep to recover & build muscle.
Unless you're getting a good sleep of 7 hours a day, your muscles won't build on itself.

This is because all the hormones (Testosterone & GH) that are secreted to build your muscles are actually secreted during sleep.
